Among the annoyingchallenges facing the middle class is one that will probably go unmentioned inthe next presidential campaign：What happens when the robots come fortheir jobs？

Don‘t dismiss thatpossibility entirely。About half of U.S。jobs are at highrisk of being automated，according to a University of Oxford study，with the middleclassdisproportionately squeezed。Lower-income jobslike gardening or day care don’t appeal to robots。But manymiddle-class occupations-trucking，financial advice，softwareengineering — have aroused their interest，or soon will。The rich own therobots，so they will be fine。

This isn‘t to bealarmist。Optimists point out that technologicalupheaval has benefited workers in the past。The IndustrialRevolution didn’t go so well for Luddites whose jobs were displaced bymechanized looms，but it eventually raised living standardsand created more jobs than it destroyed。Likewise，automation shouldeventually boost productivity，stimulate demand by driving down prices，and free workersfrom hard，boring work。But in the mediumterm，middle-class workers may need a lot ofhelp adjusting。

The first step，as ErikBrynjolfsson and Andrew McAfee argue in The Second Machine Age，should be rethinkingeducation and job training。Curriculums —from grammar school tocollege- should evolve to focus less on memorizing facts and more oncreativityand complex communication。Vocational schools should do a better jobof fostering problem-solving skills and helping students work alongside robots。Online educationcan supplement the traditional kind。It could makeextra training and instruction affordable。Professionalstrying to acquire new skills will be able to do so without going into debt。

The challenge ofcoping with automation underlines the need for the U.S。to revive itsfading business dynamism：Starting new companies must be madeeasier。In previous eras of drastic technologicalchange，entrepreneurs smoothed the transition bydreaming up ways to combine labor and machines。The best usesof3D printers and virtual reality haven‘t been invented yet。The U.S。needs the newcompanies that will invent them。

Finally，becauseautomation threatens to widen the gap between capital income and labor income，taxes and thesafety net will have to be rethought。Taxes on low-wagelabor need to be cut，and wage subsidies such as the earnedincome tax credit should be expanded：This would boostincomes，encourage work，reward companiesfor job creation，and reduce inequality。

Technology willimprove society in ways big and small over the next few years，yet this will belittle comfort to those who find their lives and careers upended by automation。Destroying themachines that are coming for our jobs would be nuts。But policies tohelp workers adapt will be indispensable。
